# 软件解决方案


## 操作系统

* Linux (Debian|Ubuntu|Xubuntu) 

## 图形化界面

* X Windows,GTK+,Xfce :在命令行使用xfce系列命令启动。例如xfce4-terminal。另外其部分组件会单独列出。

## 操作系统 :后续项目中标记Linux，说明本类软件在Windows或者iOS系统中自带或者不需要。

* Linux(Debian|Ubuntu|Xubuntu)
* Windows :主要用于台式微机或笔记本微机。但是不能完全取代同样硬件平台的Linux系统。
* iOS :主要用于平板电脑和智能手机。

## 虚拟平台

* Java
* Python
* Lua


## 文件管理工具 :Linux

* tree,find,stat :用于终端
* Thunar :Xfce自带 

## 归档压缩

* tar,gzip
* HaoZip :Windows

## 文件校验

* md5sum

## 3D渲染

* 3D渲染
  * OpenGL :类似实现有Mesa等
* 与图形化界面衔接
    * GLX :用于Linux
    * WGL :用于Windows
    * AGL :用于Mac
    * :iOS不需要

微软DX

不同条目的可以共（只用一个一般也可以），但是同一条目下的用或链接的项目一般只选一个（为了兼容性，本项目并不绝对）
    
* 标准输入输出工具
    * cat,tee,xargs
* 文本编辑
    * emacs
    * less,head,tail,wc,sort,uniq,grep,cut,paste,join,comm,diff,patch,tr,sed
    * Visual Studio Code

htop
pstree

getopts
 getopts optstring name [args]
getopts is used by shell scripts to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it by whitespace. The colon (‘:’) and question mark (‘?’) may not be used as option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automatically; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to getopts within the same shell invocation if a new set of parameters is to be used.

When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name is set to ‘?’.

getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead.

getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In normal operation, diagnostic messages are printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first character of optstring is not a colon.

If an invalid option is seen, getopts places ‘?’ into name and, if not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If getopts is silent, the option character found is placed in OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed.

If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, a question mark (‘?’) is placed in name, OPTARG is unset, and a diagnostic message is printed. If getopts is silent, then a colon (‘:’) is placed in name and OPTARG is set to the option character found.

hash
 hash [-r] [-p filename] [-dt] [name]
Each time hash is invoked, it remembers the full pathnames of the commands specified as name arguments, so they need not be searched for on subsequent invocations. The commands are found by searching through the directories listed in $PATH. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. The -p option inhibits the path search, and filename is used as the location of name. The -r option causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each name. If the -t option is supplied, the full pathname to which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple name arguments are supplied with -t the name is printed before the hashed full pathname. The -l option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remembered commands is printed. The return status is zero unless a name is not found or an invalid option is supplied.

shift
 shift [n]
Shift the positional parameters to the left by n. The positional parameters from n+1 … $# are renamed to $1 … $#-n. Parameters represented by the numbers $# to $#-n+1 are unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to $#. If n is zero or greater than $#, the positional parameters are not changed. If n is not supplied, it is assumed to be 1. The return status is zero unless n is greater than $# or less than zero, non-zero otherwise.

times
 times
Print out the user and system times used by the shell and its children. The return status is zero.

trap
 trap [-lp] [arg] [sigspec …]
The commands in arg are to be read and executed when the shell receives signal sigspec. If arg is absent (and there is a single sigspec) or equal to ‘-’, each specified signal’s disposition is reset to the value it had when the shell was started. If arg is the null string, then the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the shell and commands it invokes. If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, the shell displays the trap commands associated with each sigspec. If no arguments are supplied, or only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal number in a form that may be reused as shell input. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their corresponding numbers. Each sigspec is either a signal name or a signal number. Signal names are case insensitive and the SIG prefix is optional.

If a sigspec is 0 or EXIT, arg is executed when the shell exits. If a sigspec is DEBUG, the command arg is executed before every simple command, for command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function. Refer to the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin (see The Shopt Builtin) for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins finishes executing.

If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list immediately following an until or while keyword, part of the test following the if or elif reserved words, part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the command’s return status is being inverted using !. These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) option.

Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to their original values in a subshell or subshell environment when one is created.

The return status is zero unless a sigspec does not specify a valid signal.

********

bind
 bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX]
bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq]
bind [-m keymap] -f filename
bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command
bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name
bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command
Display current Readline (see Command Line Editing) key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a Readline function or macro, or set a Readline variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would appear in a Readline initialization file (see Readline Init File), but each binding or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., ‘"\C-x\C-r":re-read-init-file’.

Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:

-m keymap
Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard.

-l
List the names of all Readline functions.

-p
Display Readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be used as input or in a Readline initialization file.

-P
List current Readline function names and bindings.

-v
Display Readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be used as input or in a Readline initialization file.

-V
List current Readline variable names and values.

-s
Display Readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can be used as input or in a Readline initialization file.

-S
Display Readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output.

-f filename
Read key bindings from filename.

-q function
Query about which keys invoke the named function.

-u function
Unbind all keys bound to the named function.

-r keyseq
Remove any current binding for keyseq.

-x keyseq:shell-command
Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the Readline line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes the value of READLINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the editing state.

-X
List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that can be reused as input.

The return status is zero unless an invalid option is supplied or an error occurs.

caller
 caller [expr]
Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins).

Without expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0.

The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack.

command
 command [-pVv] command [arguments …]
Runs command with arguments ignoring any shell function named command. Only shell builtin commands or commands found by searching the PATH are executed. If there is a shell function named ls, running ‘command ls’ within the function will execute the external command ls instead of calling the function recursively. The -p option means to use a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. The return status in this case is 127 if command cannot be found or an error occurred, and the exit status of command otherwise.

If either the -V or -v option is supplied, a description of command is printed. The -v option causes a single word indicating the command or file name used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a more verbose description. In this case, the return status is zero if command is found, and non-zero if not.

declare
 declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] …]
Declare variables and give them attributes. If no names are given, then display the values of variables instead.

The -p option will display the attributes and values of each name. When -p is used with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored.

When -p is supplied without name arguments, declare will display the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other options are supplied with -p, declare will display the attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option will restrict the display to shell functions.

The -F option inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option is enabled using shopt (see The Shopt Builtin), the source file name and line number where each name is defined are displayed as well. -F implies -f.

The -g option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is executed in a shell function. It is ignored in all other cases.

The following options can be used to restrict output to variables with the specified attributes or to give variables attributes:

-a
Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays).

-A
Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays).

-f
Use function names only.

-i
The variable is to be treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see Shell Arithmetic) is performed when the variable is assigned a value.

-l
When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case characters are converted to lower-case. The upper-case attribute is disabled.

-n
Give each name the nameref attribute, making it a name reference to another variable. That other variable is defined by the value of name. All references, assignments, and attribute modifications to name, except for those using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed on the variable referenced by name’s value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables.

-r
Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset.

-t
Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables.

-u
When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case characters are converted to upper-case. The lower-case attribute is disabled.

-x
Mark each name for export to subsequent commands via the environment.

Using ‘+’ instead of ‘-’ turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that ‘+a’ may not be used to destroy an array variable and ‘+r’ will not remove the readonly attribute. When used in a function, declare makes each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is used. If a variable name is followed by =value, the value of the variable is set to value.

When using -a or -A and the compound assignment syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not take effect until subsequent assignments.

The return status is zero unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function using ‘-f foo=bar’, an attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without using the compound assignment syntax (see Arrays), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display a non-existent function with -f.

enable
 enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name …]
Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. If -n is used, the names become disabled. Otherwise names are enabled. For example, to use the test binary found via $PATH instead of the shell builtin version, type ‘enable -n test’.

If the -p option is supplied, or no name arguments appear, a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other arguments, the list consists of all enabled shell builtins. The -a option means to list each builtin with an indication of whether or not it is enabled.

The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading. The -d option will delete a builtin loaded with -f.

If there are no options, a list of the shell builtins is displayed. The -s option restricts enable to the POSIX special builtins. If -s is used with -f, the new builtin becomes a special builtin (see Special Builtins).

The return status is zero unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object.

let
 let expression [expression …]
The let builtin allows arithmetic to be performed on shell variables. Each expression is evaluated according to the rules given below in Shell Arithmetic. If the last expression evaluates to 0, let returns 1; otherwise 0 is returned.

local
 local [option] name[=value] …
For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and assigned value. The option can be any of the options accepted by declare. local can only be used within a function; it makes the variable name have a visible scope restricted to that function and its children. If name is ‘-’, the set of shell options is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function are restored to their original values when the function returns. The return status is zero unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly variable.

logout
 logout [n]
Exit a login shell, returning a status of n to the shell’s parent.

mapfile
 mapfile [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd]
    [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array]
Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the default array. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:

-d
The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline.

-n
Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied.

-O
Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default index is 0.

-s
Discard the first count lines read.

-t
Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read.

-u
Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input.

-C
Evaluate callback each time quantumP lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum.

-c
Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback.

If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that element as additional arguments. callback is evaluated after the line is read but before the array element is assigned.

If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it.

mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or array is not an indexed array.

printf
 printf [-v var] format [arguments]
Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the standard output.

The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, which are converted and copied to the standard output, and format specifications, each of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In addition to the standard printf(1) formats, printf interprets the following extensions:

%b
Causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e (see Bash Builtins).

%q
Causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input.

%(datefmt)T
Causes printf to output the date-time string resulting from using datefmt as a format string for strftime(3). The corresponding argument is an integer representing the number of seconds since the epoch. Two special argument values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and -2 represents the time the shell was invoked. If no argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been given. This is an exception to the usual printf behavior.

Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C language constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and if the leading character is a single or double quote, the value is the ASCII value of the following character.

The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the arguments. If the format requires more arguments than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or null string, as appropriate, had been supplied. The return value is zero on success, non-zero on failure.

typeset
 typeset [-afFgrxilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] …]
The typeset command is supplied for compatibility with the Korn shell. It is a synonym for the declare builtin command.

ulimit
 ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT] [limit]
ulimit provides control over the resources available to processes started by the shell, on systems that allow such control. If an option is given, it is interpreted as follows:

-S
Change and report the soft limit associated with a resource.

-H
Change and report the hard limit associated with a resource.

-a
All current limits are reported.

-b
The maximum socket buffer size.

-c
The maximum size of core files created.

-d
The maximum size of a process’s data segment.

-e
The maximum scheduling priority ("nice").

-f
The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children.

-i
The maximum number of pending signals.

-k
The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated.

-l
The maximum size that may be locked into memory.

-m
The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit).

-n
The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set).

-p
The pipe buffer size.

-q
The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues.

-r
The maximum real-time scheduling priority.

-s
The maximum stack size.

-t
The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds.

-u
The maximum number of processes available to a single user.

-v
The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell, and, on some systems, to its children.

-x
The maximum number of file locks.

-P
The maximum number of pseudoterminals.

-T
The maximum number of threads.

If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. The special limit values hard, soft, and unlimited stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. A hard limit cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up to the value of the hard limit. Otherwise, the current value of the soft limit for the specified resource is printed, unless the -H option is supplied. When setting new limits, if neither -H nor -S is supplied, both the hard and soft limits are set. If no option is given, then -f is assumed. Values are in 1024-byte increments, except for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n and -u, which are unscaled values; and, when in POSIX Mode (see Bash POSIX Mode), -c and -f, which are in 512-byte increments.

The return status is zero unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit.


**********************


COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS

acpid
acpid [-d] [-c CONFDIR] [-l LOGFILE] [-e PROC_EVENT_FILE] [EVDEV_EVENT_FILE...]

Listen to ACPI events and spawn specific helpers on event arrival

Options:

        -d      Do not daemonize and log to stderr
        -c DIR  Config directory [/etc/acpi]
        -e FILE /proc event file [/proc/acpi/event]
        -l FILE Log file [/var/log/acpid]
Accept and ignore compatibility options -g -m -s -S -v



adjtimex
adjtimex [-q] [-o offset] [-f frequency] [-p timeconstant] [-t tick]

Read and optionally set system timebase parameters. See adjtimex(2).

Options:

        -q              Quiet
        -o offset       Time offset, microseconds
        -f frequency    Frequency adjust, integer kernel units (65536 is 1ppm)
                        (positive values make clock run faster)
        -t tick         Microseconds per tick, usually 10000
        -p timeconstant
ar
ar [-o] [-v] [-p] [-t] [-x] ARCHIVE FILES

Extract or list FILES from an ar archive

Options:

        -o      Preserve original dates
        -p      Extract to stdout
        -t      List
        -x      Extract
        -v      Verbose
arp
arp
[-vn]	[-H type] [-i if] -a [hostname]
[-v]	[-i if] -d hostname [pub]
[-v]	[-H type] [-i if] -s hostname hw_addr [temp]
[-v]	[-H type] [-i if] -s hostname hw_addr [netmask nm] pub
[-v]	[-H type] [-i if] -Ds hostname ifa [netmask nm] pub
Manipulate ARP cache

Options:

        -a              Display (all) hosts
        -s              Set new ARP entry
        -d              Delete a specified entry
        -v              Verbose
        -n              Don't resolve names
        -i IF           Network interface
        -D              Read <hwaddr> from given device
        -A, -p AF       Protocol family
        -H HWTYPE       Hardware address type
arping
arping [-fqbDUA] [-c count] [-w timeout] [-I dev] [-s sender] target

Send ARP requests/replies

Options:

        -f              Quit on first ARP reply
        -q              Quiet
        -b              Keep broadcasting, don't go unicast
        -D              Duplicated address detection mode
        -U              Unsolicited ARP mode, update your neighbors
        -A              ARP answer mode, update your neighbors
        -c N            Stop after sending N ARP requests
        -w timeout      Time to wait for ARP reply, in seconds
        -I dev          Interface to use (default eth0)
        -s sender       Sender IP address
        target          Target IP address
awk
awk [OPTIONS] [AWK_PROGRAM] [FILE]...

Options:

        -v VAR=VAL      Set variable
        -F SEP          Use SEP as field separator
        -f FILE         Read program from file

beep
beep -f freq -l length -d delay -r repetitions -n

Options:

        -f      Frequency in Hz
        -l      Length in ms
        -d      Delay in ms
        -r      Repetitions
        -n      Start new tone
blkid
blkid

Print UUIDs of all filesystems

brctl
brctl COMMAND [BRIDGE [INTERFACE]]

Manage ethernet bridges

Commands:

        show                    Show a list of bridges
        addbr BRIDGE            Create BRIDGE
        delbr BRIDGE            Delete BRIDGE
        addif BRIDGE IFACE      Add IFACE to BRIDGE
        delif BRIDGE IFACE      Delete IFACE from BRIDGE
        setageing BRIDGE TIME           Set ageing time
        setfd BRIDGE TIME               Set bridge forward delay
        sethello BRIDGE TIME            Set hello time
        setmaxage BRIDGE TIME           Set max message age
        setpathcost BRIDGE COST         Set path cost
        setportprio BRIDGE PRIO         Set port priority
        setbridgeprio BRIDGE PRIO       Set bridge priority
        stp BRIDGE [1|0]                STP on/off


cal
cal [-jy] [[month] year]

Display a calendar

Options:

        -j      Use julian dates
        -y      Display the entire year

catv
catv [-etv] [FILE]...

Display nonprinting characters as ^x or M-x

Options:

        -e      End each line with $
        -t      Show tabs as ^I
        -v      Don't use ^x or M-x escapes
chat
chat EXPECT [SEND [EXPECT [SEND...]]]

Useful for interacting with a modem connected to stdin/stdout. A script consists of one or more "expect-send" pairs of strings, each pair is a pair of arguments. Example: chat '' ATZ OK ATD123456 CONNECT '' ogin: pppuser word: ppppass '~'

chattr
chattr [-R] [-+=AacDdijsStTu] [-v version] files...

Change file attributes on an ext2 fs

Modifiers:

        -       Remove attributes
        +       Add attributes
        =       Set attributes
Attributes:
        A       Don't track atime
        a       Append mode only
        c       Enable compress
        D       Write dir contents synchronously
        d       Do not backup with dump
        i       Cannot be modified (immutable)
        j       Write all data to journal first
        s       Zero disk storage when deleted
        S       Write file contents synchronously
        t       Disable tail-merging of partial blocks with other files
        u       Allow file to be undeleted
Options:
        -R      Recursively list subdirectories
        -v      Set the file's version/generation number



chpst
chpst [-vP012] [-u USER[:GRP]] [-U USER[:GRP]] [-e DIR]
[-/ DIR] [-n NICE] [-m BYTES] [-d BYTES] [-o N]
[-p N] [-f BYTES] [-c BYTES] PROG ARGS
Change the process state and run PROG

Options:

        -u USER[:GRP]   Set uid and gid
        -U USER[:GRP]   Set $UID and $GID in environment
        -e DIR          Set environment variables as specified by files
                        in DIR: file=1st_line_of_file
        -/ DIR          Chroot to DIR
        -n NICE         Add NICE to nice value
        -m BYTES        Same as -d BYTES -s BYTES -l BYTES
        -d BYTES        Limit data segment
        -o N            Limit number of open files per process
        -p N            Limit number of processes per uid
        -f BYTES        Limit output file sizes
        -c BYTES        Limit core file size
        -v              Verbose
        -P              Create new process group
        -0              Close standard input
        -1              Close standard output
        -2              Close standard error
chroot
chroot NEWROOT [PROG [ARGS]]

Run PROG with root directory set to NEWROOT

chrt
chrt [OPTIONS] [PRIO] [PID | PROG [ARGS]]

Manipulate real-time attributes of a process

Options:

        -p      Operate on pid
        -r      Set scheduling policy to SCHED_RR
        -f      Set scheduling policy to SCHED_FIFO
        -o      Set scheduling policy to SCHED_OTHER
        -m      Show min and max priorities
chvt
chvt N

Change the foreground virtual terminal to /dev/ttyN

cksum
cksum FILES...

Calculate the CRC32 checksums of FILES

clear
clear

Clear screen

cmp
cmp [-l] [-s] FILE1 [FILE2 [SKIP1 [SKIP2]]]

Compares FILE1 vs stdin if FILE2 is not specified

Options:

        -l      Write the byte numbers (decimal) and values (octal)
                for all differing bytes
        -s      Quiet


cpio
cpio -[tiopdmvu] [-F FILE] [-H newc]

Extract or list files from a cpio archive, or create a cpio archive Main operation mode:

        -t      List
        -i      Extract
        -o      Create
        -p      Passthrough
Options:
        -d      Make leading directories
        -m      Preserve mtime
        -v      Verbose
        -u      Overwrite
        -F      Input file
        -H      Define format
crond
crond -fbS -l N -d N -L LOGFILE -c DIR

        -f      Foreground
        -b      Background (default)
        -S      Log to syslog (default)
        -l      Set log level. 0 is the most verbose, default 8
        -d      Set log level, log to stderr
        -L      Log to file
        -c      Working dir
crontab
crontab [-c DIR] [-u USER] [-ler]|[FILE]

        -c      Crontab directory
        -u      User
        -l      List crontab
        -e      Edit crontab
        -r      Delete crontab
        FILE    Replace crontab by FILE ('-': stdin)
cryptpw
cryptpw [OPTIONS] [PASSWORD] [SALT]

Crypt the PASSWORD using crypt(3)

Options:

        -P,--password-fd=NUM    Read password from fd NUM
        -m,--method=TYPE        Encryption method TYPE
        -S,--salt=SALT

date
date [OPTIONS] [+FMT] [TIME]

Display time (using +FMT), or set time

Options:

        [-s] TIME       Set time to TIME
        -u              Work in UTC (don't convert to local time)
        -R              Output RFC-822 compliant date string
        -I[SPEC]        Output ISO-8601 compliant date string
                        SPEC='date' (default) for date only,
                        'hours', 'minutes', or 'seconds' for date and
                        time to the indicated precision
        -r FILE         Display last modification time of FILE
        -d TIME         Display TIME, not 'now'
        -D FMT          Use FMT for -d TIME conversion
Recognized TIME formats:

        hh:mm[:ss]
        [YYYY.]MM.DD-hh:mm[:ss]
        YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm[:ss]
        [[[[[YY]YY]MM]DD]hh]mm[.ss]

deallocvt
deallocvt [N]

Deallocate unused virtual terminal /dev/ttyN

devmem
devmem ADDRESS [WIDTH [VALUE]]

Read/write from physical address

        ADDRESS Address to act upon
        WIDTH   Width (8/16/...)
        VALUE   Data to be written
df
df [-Pkmhai] [-B SIZE] [FILESYSTEM...]

Print filesystem usage statistics

Options:

        -P      POSIX output format
        -k      1024-byte blocks (default)
        -m      1M-byte blocks
        -h      Human readable (e.g. 1K 243M 2G)
        -a      Show all filesystems
        -i      Inodes
        -B SIZE Blocksize
dhcprelay
dhcprelay CLIENT_IFACE[,CLIENT_IFACE2...] SERVER_IFACE [SERVER_IP]

Relay DHCP requests between clients and server

dmesg
dmesg [-c] [-n LEVEL] [-s SIZE]

Print or control the kernel ring buffer

Options:

        -c              Clear ring buffer after printing
        -n LEVEL        Set console logging level
        -s SIZE         Buffer size
dnsd
dnsd [-c config] [-t seconds] [-p port] [-i iface-ip] [-d]

Small static DNS server daemon

Options:

        -c      Config filename
        -t      TTL in seconds
        -p      Listening port
        -i      Listening ip (default all)
        -d      Daemonize
dos2unix
dos2unix [OPTION] [FILE]

Convert FILE in-place from DOS to Unix format. When no file is given, use stdin/stdout.

Options:

        -u      dos2unix
        -d      unix2dos
dpkg
dpkg [-ilCPru] [-F option] package_name

Install, remove and manage Debian packages

Options:

        -i              Install the package
        -l              List of installed packages
        -C              Configure an unpackaged package
        -F depends      Ignore dependency problems
        -P              Purge all files of a package
        -r              Remove all but the configuration files for a package
        -u              Unpack a package, but don't configure it
du
du [-aHLdclsxhmk] [FILE]...

Summarize disk space used for each FILE and/or directory. Disk space is printed in units of 1024 bytes.

Options:

        -a      Show file sizes too
        -H      Follow symlinks on command line
        -L      Follow all symlinks
        -d N    Limit output to directories (and files with -a) of depth < N
        -c      Show grand total
        -l      Count sizes many times if hard linked
        -s      Display only a total for each argument
        -x      Skip directories on different filesystems
        -h      Sizes in human readable format (e.g., 1K 243M 2G )
        -m      Sizes in megabytes
        -k      Sizes in kilobytes (default)
dumpkmap
dumpkmap > keymap

Print a binary keyboard translation table to standard output

dumpleases
dumpleases [-r|-a] [-f LEASEFILE]

Display DHCP leases granted by udhcpd

Options:

        -f,--file=FILE  Leases file to load
        -r,--remaining  Interpret lease times as time remaining
        -a,--absolute   Interpret lease times as expire time

ed
ed

eject
eject [-t] [-T] [DEVICE]

Eject specified DEVICE (or default /dev/cdrom)

Options:

        -s      SCSI device
        -t      Close tray
        -T      Open/close tray (toggle)
env
env [-iu] [-] [name=value]... [PROG [ARGS]]

Print the current environment or run PROG after setting up the specified environment

Options:

        -, -i   Start with an empty environment
        -u      Remove variable from the environment
envdir
envdir dir prog args

Set various environment variables as specified by files in the directory dir and run PROG

envuidgid
envuidgid account prog args

Set $UID to account's uid and $GID to account's gid and run PROG

expand
expand [-i] [-t NUM] [FILE|-]

Convert tabs to spaces, writing to standard output

Options:

        -i,--initial    Do not convert tabs after non blanks
        -t,--tabs=N     Tabstops every N chars

fakeidentd
fakeidentd [-fiw] [-b ADDR] [STRING]

Provide fake ident (auth) service

Options:

        -f      Run in foreground
        -i      Inetd mode
        -w      Inetd 'wait' mode
        -b ADDR Bind to specified address
        STRING  Ident answer string (default: nobody)

fbset
fbset [OPTIONS] [MODE]

Show and modify frame buffer settings

fbsplash
fbsplash -s IMGFILE [-c] [-d DEV] [-i INIFILE] [-f CMD]

Options:

        -s      Image
        -c      Hide cursor
        -d      Framebuffer device (default /dev/fb0)
        -i      Config file (var=value):
                        BAR_LEFT,BAR_TOP,BAR_WIDTH,BAR_HEIGHT
                        BAR_R,BAR_G,BAR_B
        -f      Control pipe (else exit after drawing image)
                        commands: 'NN' (% for progress bar) or 'exit'
fdflush
fdflush DEVICE

Force floppy disk drive to detect disk change

fdformat
fdformat [-n] DEVICE

Format floppy disk

Options:

        -n      Don't verify after format
fdisk
fdisk [-ul] [-C CYLINDERS] [-H HEADS] [-S SECTORS] [-b SSZ] DISK

Change partition table

Options:

        -u              Start and End are in sectors (instead of cylinders)
        -l              Show partition table for each DISK, then exit
        -b 2048         (for certain MO disks) use 2048-byte sectors
        -C CYLINDERS    Set number of cylinders/heads/sectors
        -H HEADS
        -S SECTORS

findfs
findfs LABEL=label or UUID=uuid

Find a filesystem device based on a label or UUID

flash_lock
flash_lock MTD_DEVICE OFFSET SECTORS

Lock part or all of an MTD device. If SECTORS is -1, then all sectors will be locked, regardless of the value of OFFSET

flash_unlock
flash_unlock MTD_DEVICE

Unlock an MTD device

fold
fold [-bs] [-w WIDTH] [FILE]

Wrap input lines in each FILE (standard input by default), writing to standard output

Options:

        -b      Count bytes rather than columns
        -s      Break at spaces
        -w      Use WIDTH columns instead of 80
free
free

Display the amount of free and used system memory

freeramdisk
freeramdisk DEVICE

Free all memory used by the specified ramdisk

fsck
fsck [-ANPRTV] [-C fd] [-t fstype] [fs-options] [filesys...]

Check and repair filesystems

Options:

        -A      Walk /etc/fstab and check all filesystems
        -N      Don't execute, just show what would be done
        -P      With -A, check filesystems in parallel
        -R      With -A, skip the root filesystem
        -T      Don't show title on startup
        -V      Verbose
        -C n    Write status information to specified filedescriptor
        -t type List of filesystem types to check
fsck.minix
fsck.minix [-larvsmf] /dev/name

Check MINIX filesystem

Options:

        -l      List all filenames
        -r      Perform interactive repairs
        -a      Perform automatic repairs
        -v      Verbose
        -s      Output superblock information
        -m      Show "mode not cleared" warnings
        -f      Force file system check
fsync
fsync [OPTIONS] FILE...Write files' buffered blocks to disk

Options:

        -d      Avoid syncing metadata
ftpd
ftpd [-wvS] [-t N] [-T N] [DIR]

Anonymous FTP server

ftpd should be used as an inetd service. ftpd's line for inetd.conf: 21 stream tcp nowait root ftpd ftpd /files/to/serve It also can be ran from tcpsvd:

        tcpsvd -vE 0.0.0.0 21 ftpd /files/to/serve
Options:

        -w      Allow upload
        -v      Log to stderr
        -S      Log to syslog
        -t,-T   Idle and absolute timeouts
        DIR     Change root to this directory
ftpget
ftpget [OPTIONS] HOST LOCAL_FILE REMOTE_FILE

Retrieve a remote file via FTP

Options:

        -c,--continue   Continue previous transfer
        -v,--verbose    Verbose
        -u,--username   Username
        -p,--password   Password
        -P,--port       Port number
ftpput
ftpput [OPTIONS] HOST REMOTE_FILE LOCAL_FILE

Store a local file on a remote machine via FTP

Options:

        -v,--verbose    Verbose
        -u,--username   Username
        -p,--password   Password
        -P,--port       Port number
fuser
fuser [OPTIONS] FILE or PORT/PROTO

Find processes which use FILEs or PORTs

Options:

        -m      Find processes which use same fs as FILEs
        -4      Search only IPv4 space
        -6      Search only IPv6 space
        -s      Silent: just exit with 0 if any processes are found
        -k      Kill found processes (otherwise display PIDs)
        -SIGNAL Signal to send (default: TERM)
getopt
getopt [OPTIONS]

Options:

        -a,--alternative                Allow long options starting with single -
        -l,--longoptions=longopts       Long options to be recognized
        -n,--name=progname              The name under which errors are reported
        -o,--options=optstring          Short options to be recognized
        -q,--quiet                      Disable error reporting by getopt(3)
        -Q,--quiet-output               No normal output
        -s,--shell=shell                Set shell quoting conventions
        -T,--test                       Test for getopt(1) version
        -u,--unquoted                   Don't quote the output
getty
getty [OPTIONS] BAUD_RATE TTY [TERMTYPE]

Open a tty, prompt for a login name, then invoke /bin/login

Options:

        -h              Enable hardware (RTS/CTS) flow control
        -i              Do not display /etc/issue before running login
        -L              Local line, do not do carrier detect
        -m              Get baud rate from modem's CONNECT status message
        -w              Wait for a CR or LF before sending /etc/issue
        -n              Do not prompt the user for a login name
        -f ISSUE_FILE   Display ISSUE_FILE instead of /etc/issue
        -l LOGIN        Invoke LOGIN instead of /bin/login
        -t SEC          Terminate after SEC if no username is read
        -I INITSTR      Send INITSTR before anything else
        -H HOST         Log HOST into the utmp file as the hostname

hd
hd FILE...

hd is an alias for hexdump -C

hdparm
hdparm [OPTIONS] [DEVICE]

Options:

        -a      Get/set fs readahead
        -A      Set drive read-lookahead flag (0/1)
        -b      Get/set bus state (0 == off, 1 == on, 2 == tristate)
        -B      Set Advanced Power Management setting (1-255)
        -c      Get/set IDE 32-bit IO setting
        -C      Check IDE power mode status
        -d      Get/set using_dma flag
        -D      Enable/disable drive defect-mgmt
        -f      Flush buffer cache for device on exit
        -g      Display drive geometry
        -h      Display terse usage information
        -i      Display drive identification
        -I      Detailed/current information directly from drive
        -k      Get/set keep_settings_over_reset flag (0/1)
        -K      Set drive keep_features_over_reset flag (0/1)
        -L      Set drive doorlock (0/1) (removable harddisks only)
        -m      Get/set multiple sector count
        -n      Get/set ignore-write-errors flag (0/1)
        -p      Set PIO mode on IDE interface chipset (0,1,2,3,4,...)
        -P      Set drive prefetch count
        -Q      Get/set DMA tagged-queuing depth (if supported)
        -r      Get/set readonly flag (DANGEROUS to set)
        -R      Register an IDE interface (DANGEROUS)
        -S      Set standby (spindown) timeout
        -t      Perform device read timings
        -T      Perform cache read timings
        -u      Get/set unmaskirq flag (0/1)
        -U      Un-register an IDE interface (DANGEROUS)
        -v      Defaults; same as -mcudkrag for IDE drives
        -V      Display program version and exit immediately
        -w      Perform device reset (DANGEROUS)
        -W      Set drive write-caching flag (0/1) (DANGEROUS)
        -x      Tristate device for hotswap (0/1) (DANGEROUS)
        -X      Set IDE xfer mode (DANGEROUS)
        -y      Put IDE drive in standby mode
        -Y      Put IDE drive to sleep
        -Z      Disable Seagate auto-powersaving mode
        -z      Re-read partition table

hexdump
hexdump [-bcCdefnosvxR] FILE...

Display file(s) or standard input in a user specified format

Options:

        -b              One-byte octal display
        -c              One-byte character display
        -C              Canonical hex+ASCII, 16 bytes per line
        -d              Two-byte decimal display
        -e FORMAT STRING
        -f FORMAT FILE
        -n LENGTH       Interpret only LENGTH bytes of input
        -o              Two-byte octal display
        -s OFFSET       Skip OFFSET bytes
        -v              Display all input data
        -x              Two-byte hexadecimal display
        -R              Reverse of 'hexdump -Cv'
hostid
hostid

Print out a unique 32-bit identifier for the machine

hostname
hostname [OPTIONS] [HOSTNAME | -F FILE]

Get or set hostname or DNS domain name

Options:

        -s      Short
        -i      Addresses for the hostname
        -d      DNS domain name
        -f      Fully qualified domain name
        -F FILE Use FILE's content as hostname
httpd
httpd [-ifv[v]] [-c CONFFILE] [-p [IP:]PORT] [-u USER[:GRP]] [-r REALM] [-h HOME] or httpd -d/-e/-m STRING

Listen for incoming HTTP requests

Options:

        -i              Inetd mode
        -f              Do not daemonize
        -v[v]           Verbose
        -c FILE         Configuration file (default httpd.conf)
        -p [IP:]PORT    Bind to ip:port (default *:80)
        -u USER[:GRP]   Set uid/gid after binding to port
        -r REALM        Authentication Realm for Basic Authentication
        -h HOME         Home directory (default .)
        -m STRING       MD5 crypt STRING
        -e STRING       HTML encode STRING
        -d STRING       URL decode STRING
hwclock
hwclock [-r|--show] [-s|--hctosys] [-w|--systohc] [-l|--localtime] [-u|--utc] [-f FILE]

Query and set hardware clock (RTC)

Options:

        -r      Show hardware clock time
        -s      Set system time from hardware clock
        -w      Set hardware clock to system time
        -u      Hardware clock is in UTC
        -l      Hardware clock is in local time
        -f FILE Use specified device (e.g. /dev/rtc2)
id
id [OPTIONS] [USER]

Print information about USER or the current user

Options:

        -u      Print user ID
        -g      Print group ID
        -G      Print supplementary group IDs
        -n      Print name instead of a number
        -r      Print real user ID instead of effective ID
ifconfig
ifconfig [-a] interface [address]

Configure a network interface

Options:

        [add ADDRESS[/PREFIXLEN]]
        [del ADDRESS[/PREFIXLEN]]
        [[-]broadcast [ADDRESS]] [[-]pointopoint [ADDRESS]]
        [netmask ADDRESS] [dstaddr ADDRESS]
        [outfill NN] [keepalive NN]
        [hw ether|infiniband ADDRESS] [metric NN] [mtu NN]
        [[-]trailers] [[-]arp] [[-]allmulti]
        [multicast] [[-]promisc] [txqueuelen NN] [[-]dynamic]
        [mem_start NN] [io_addr NN] [irq NN]
        [up|down] ...
ifdown
ifdown [-ainmvf] ifaces...

Options:

        -a      De/configure all interfaces automatically
        -i FILE Use FILE for interface definitions
        -n      Print out what would happen, but don't do it
                (note: doesn't disable mappings)
        -m      Don't run any mappings
        -v      Print out what would happen before doing it
        -f      Force de/configuration
ifenslave
ifenslave [-cdf] master-iface <slave-iface...>

Configure network interfaces for parallel routing

Options:

        -c, --change-active     Change active slave
        -d, --detach            Remove slave interface from bonding device
        -f, --force             Force, even if interface is not Ethernet
ifplugd
ifplugd [OPTIONS]

Network interface plug detection daemon

Options:

        -n              Do not daemonize
        -s              Do not log to syslog
        -i IFACE        Interface
        -f/-F           Treat link detection error as link down/link up
                        (otherwise exit on error)
        -a              Do not up interface automatically
        -M              Monitor creation/destruction of interface
                        (otherwise it must exist)
        -r PROG         Script to run
        -x ARG          Extra argument for script
        -I              Don't exit on nonzero exit code from script
        -p              Don't run script on daemon startup
        -q              Don't run script on daemon quit
        -l              Run script on startup even if no cable is detected
        -t SECS         Poll time in seconds
        -u SECS         Delay before running script after link up
        -d SECS         Delay after link down
        -m MODE         API mode (mii, priv, ethtool, wlan, auto)
        -k              Kill running daemon
ifup
ifup [-ainmvf] ifaces...

Options:

        -a      De/configure all interfaces automatically
        -i FILE Use FILE for interface definitions
        -n      Print out what would happen, but don't do it
                (note: doesn't disable mappings)
        -m      Don't run any mappings
        -v      Print out what would happen before doing it
        -f      Force de/configuration
inetd
inetd [-fe] [-q N] [-R N] [CONFFILE]

Listen for network connections and launch programs

Options:

        -f      Run in foreground
        -e      Log to stderr
        -q N    Socket listen queue (default: 128)
        -R N    Pause services after N connects/min
                (default: 0 - disabled)
init
init

Init is the parent of all processes

inotifyd
inotifyd PROG FILE1[:MASK] ...

Run PROG on filesystem changes. When a filesystem event matching MASK occurs on FILEn, PROG <actual_event(s)> <FILEn> [<subfile_name>] is run. Events:

        a       File is accessed
        c       File is modified
        e       Metadata changed
        w       Writable file is closed
        0       Unwritable file is closed
        r       File is opened
        D       File is deleted
        M       File is moved
        u       Backing fs is unmounted
        o       Event queue overflowed
        x       File can't be watched anymore
If watching a directory:
        m       Subfile is moved into dir
        y       Subfile is moved out of dir
        n       Subfile is created
        d       Subfile is deleted
inotifyd waits for PROG to exit. When x event happens for all FILEs, inotifyd exits

insmod
insmod [OPTIONS] MODULE [symbol=value]...

Load the specified kernel modules into the kernel

Options:

        -f      Force module to load into the wrong kernel version
        -k      Make module autoclean-able
        -v      Verbose
        -q      Quiet
        -L      Lock to prevent simultaneous loads of a module
        -m      Output load map to stdout
        -o NAME Set internal module name to NAME
        -x      Do not export externs
install
install [-cdDsp] [-o USER] [-g GRP] [-m MODE] [source] dest|directory

Copy files and set attributes

Options:

        -c      Just copy (default)
        -d      Create directories
        -D      Create leading target directories
        -s      Strip symbol table
        -p      Preserve date
        -o USER Set ownership
        -g GRP  Set group ownership
        -m MODE Set permissions
ionice
ionice [-c 1-3] [-n 0-7] [-p PID] [PROG]

Change I/O scheduling class and priority

Options:

        -c      Class. 1:realtime 2:best-effort 3:idle
        -n      Priority
ip
ip [OPTIONS] {address | route | link | tunnel | rule} {COMMAND}

ip [OPTIONS] OBJECT {COMMAND} where OBJECT := {address | route | link | tunnel | rule} OPTIONS := { -f[amily] { inet | inet6 | link } | -o[neline] }

ipaddr
ipaddr { {add|del} IFADDR dev STRING | {show|flush}
[dev STRING] [to PREFIX] }
ipaddr {add|delete} IFADDR dev STRING ipaddr {show|flush} [dev STRING] [scope SCOPE-ID] [to PREFIX] [label PATTERN] IFADDR := PREFIX | ADDR peer PREFIX [broadcast ADDR] [anycast ADDR] [label STRING] [scope SCOPE-ID] SCOPE-ID := [host | link | global | NUMBER]

ipcalc
ipcalc [OPTIONS] ADDRESS[[/]NETMASK] [NETMASK]

Calculate IP network settings from a IP address

Options:

        -b,--broadcast  Display calculated broadcast address
        -n,--network    Display calculated network address
        -m,--netmask    Display default netmask for IP
        -p,--prefix     Display the prefix for IP/NETMASK
        -h,--hostname   Display first resolved host name
        -s,--silent     Don't ever display error messages
ipcrm
ipcrm [-MQS key] [-mqs id]

Upper-case options MQS remove an object by shmkey value. Lower-case options remove an object by shmid value.

Options:

        -mM     Remove memory segment after last detach
        -qQ     Remove message queue
        -sS     Remove semaphore
ipcs
ipcs [[-smq] -i shmid] | [[-asmq] [-tcplu]]

        -i      Show specific resource
Resource specification:
        -m      Shared memory segments
        -q      Message queues
        -s      Semaphore arrays
        -a      All (default)
Output format:
        -t      Time
        -c      Creator
        -p      Pid
        -l      Limits
        -u      Summary
iplink
iplink { set DEVICE { up | down | arp { on | off } | show [DEVICE] }

iplink set DEVICE { up | down | arp | multicast { on | off } | dynamic { on | off } | mtu MTU } iplink show [DEVICE]

iproute
iproute { list | flush | { add | del | change | append |
replace | monitor } ROUTE }
iproute { list | flush } SELECTOR iproute get ADDRESS [from ADDRESS iif STRING] [oif STRING] [tos TOS] iproute { add | del | change | append | replace | monitor } ROUTE SELECTOR := [root PREFIX] [match PREFIX] [proto RTPROTO] ROUTE := [TYPE] PREFIX [tos TOS] [proto RTPROTO] [metric METRIC]

iprule
iprule {[list | add | del] RULE}

iprule [list | add | del] SELECTOR ACTION
SELECTOR := [from PREFIX] [to PREFIX] [tos TOS] [fwmark FWMARK]
[dev STRING] [pref NUMBER]
ACTION := [table TABLE_ID] [nat ADDRESS]
[prohibit | reject | unreachable]
[realms [SRCREALM/]DSTREALM]
TABLE_ID := [local | main | default | NUMBER]
iptunnel
iptunnel { add | change | del | show } [NAME]
[mode { ipip | gre | sit }]
[remote ADDR] [local ADDR] [ttl TTL]
iptunnel { add | change | del | show } [NAME]
[mode { ipip | gre | sit }] [remote ADDR] [local ADDR]
[[i|o]seq] [[i|o]key KEY] [[i|o]csum]
[ttl TTL] [tos TOS] [[no]pmtudisc] [dev PHYS_DEV]
kbd_mode
kbd_mode [-a|k|s|u] [-C TTY]

Report or set the keyboard mode

Options:

        -a      Default (ASCII)
        -k      Medium-raw (keyboard)
        -s      Raw (scancode)
        -u      Unicode (utf-8)
        -C TTY  Affect TTY instead of /dev/tty

klogd
klogd [-c N] [-n]

Kernel logger

Options:

        -c N    Only messages with level < N are printed to console
        -n      Run in foreground
last
last [-HW] [-f file]

Show listing of the last users that logged into the system

Options:

        -W      Display with no host column truncation
        -f file Read from file instead of /var/log/wtmp
length
length STRING

Print STRING's length


loadfont
loadfont < font

Load a console font from standard input

loadkmap
loadkmap < keymap

Load a binary keyboard translation table from standard input

logger
logger [OPTIONS] [MESSAGE]

Write MESSAGE to the system log. If MESSAGE is omitted, log stdin.

Options:

        -s      Log to stderr as well as the system log
        -t TAG  Log using the specified tag (defaults to user name)
        -p PRIO Priority (numeric or facility.level pair)
login
login [-p] [-h HOST] [[-f] USER]

Begin a new session on the system

Options:

        -f      Do not authenticate (user already authenticated)
        -h      Name of the remote host
        -p      Preserve environment
logname
logname

Print the name of the current user

logread
logread [OPTIONS]

Show messages in syslogd's circular buffer

Options:

        -f      Output data as log grows
losetup
losetup [-o OFS] LOOPDEV FILE - associate loop devices
losetup -d LOOPDEV - disassociate
losetup [-f] - show
Options:

        -o OFS  Start OFS bytes into FILE
        -f      Show first free loop device
lpd
lpd SPOOLDIR [HELPER [ARGS]]

SPOOLDIR must contain (symlinks to) device nodes or directories with names matching print queue names. In the first case, jobs are sent directly to the device. Otherwise each job is stored in queue directory and HELPER program is called. Name of file to print is passed in $DATAFILE variable. Example:

        tcpsvd -E 0 515 softlimit -m 999999 lpd /var/spool ./print
lpq
lpq [-P queue[@host[:port]]] [-U USERNAME] [-d JOBID...] [-fs]

Options:

        -P      lp service to connect to (else uses $PRINTER)
        -d      Delete jobs
        -f      Force any waiting job to be printed
        -s      Short display
lpr
lpr -P queue[@host[:port]] -U USERNAME -J TITLE -Vmh [FILE]...

Options:

        -P      lp service to connect to (else uses $PRINTER)
        -m      Send mail on completion
        -h      Print banner page too
        -V      Verbose

lsattr
lsattr [-Radlv] [FILE]...

List file attributes on an ext2 fs

Options:

        -R      Recursively list subdirectories
        -a      Do not hide entries starting with .
        -d      List directory entries instead of contents
        -l      List long flag names
        -v      List the file's version/generation number
lsmod
lsmod

List the currently loaded kernel modules

lzmacat
lzmacat FILE

Uncompress to stdout

lzop
lzop [-cfvd123456789CF] [FILE]...

        -c      Write to standard output
        -f      Force
        -v      Verbose
        -d      Decompress
        -F      Don't store or verify checksum
        -C      Also write checksum of compressed block
        -1..9   Compression level
lzopcat
lzopcat [-vCF] [FILE]...

        -v      Verbose
        -F      Don't store or verify checksum
makemime
makemime [OPTIONS] [FILE]...

Create multipart MIME-encoded message from FILEs

Options:

        -o FILE Output. Default: stdout
        -a HDR  Add header. Examples:
                "From: user@host.org", "Date: `date -R`"
        -c CT   Content type. Default: text/plain
        -C CS   Charset. Default: us-ascii
Other options are silently ignored


mdev
mdev [-s]

        -s      Scan /sys and populate /dev during system boot
It can be run by kernel as a hotplug helper. To activate it: echo /bin/mdev >/proc/sys/kernel/hotplug It uses /etc/mdev.conf with lines [-]DEVNAME UID:GID PERM [>|=PATH] [@|$|*PROG]

mesg
mesg [y|n]

Control write access to your terminal
y	Allow write access to your terminal
n	Disallow write access to your terminal
microcom
microcom [-d DELAY] [-t TIMEOUT] [-s SPEED] [-X] TTY

Copy bytes for stdin to TTY and from TTY to stdout

Options:

        -d      Wait up to DELAY ms for TTY output before sending every
                next byte to it
        -t      Exit if both stdin and TTY are silent for TIMEOUT ms
        -s      Set serial line to SPEED
        -X      Disable special meaning of NUL and Ctrl-X from stdin

mkdosfs
mkdosfs [-v] [-n LABEL] FILE_OR_DEVICE [SIZE_IN_KB]

Make a FAT32 filesystem

Options:

        -v      Verbose
        -n LBL  Volume label
mkfifo
mkfifo [OPTIONS] name

Create named pipe (identical to 'mknod name p')

Options:

        -m MODE Mode (default a=rw)
mkfs.minix
mkfs.minix [-c | -l filename] [-nXX] [-iXX] /dev/name [blocks]

Make a MINIX filesystem

Options:

        -c              Check device for bad blocks
        -n [14|30]      Maximum length of filenames
        -i INODES       Number of inodes for the filesystem
        -l FILENAME     Read bad blocks list from FILENAME
        -v              Make version 2 filesystem
mkfs.vfat
mkfs.vfat [-v] [-n LABEL] FILE_OR_DEVICE [SIZE_IN_KB]

Make a FAT32 filesystem

Options:

        -v      Verbose
        -n LBL  Volume label
mknod
mknod [OPTIONS] NAME TYPE MAJOR MINOR

Create a special file (block, character, or pipe)

Options:

        -m      Create the special file using the specified mode (default a=rw)
TYPEs include:
        b:      Make a block device
        c or u: Make a character device
        p:      Make a named pipe (MAJOR and MINOR are ignored)
mkpasswd
mkpasswd [OPTIONS] [PASSWORD] [SALT]

Crypt the PASSWORD using crypt(3)

Options:

        -P,--password-fd=NUM    Read password from fd NUM
        -m,--method=TYPE        Encryption method TYPE
        -S,--salt=SALT
mkswap
mkswap DEVICE

Prepare block device to be used as swap partition

modprobe
modprobe [-knqrsvb] MODULE [symbol=value...]

Options:

        -k      Make module autoclean-able
        -n      Dry run
        -q      Quiet
        -r      Remove module (stacks) or do autoclean
        -s      Report via syslog instead of stderr
        -v      Verbose
        -b      Apply blacklist to module names too

mount
mount [flags] DEVICE NODE [-o OPT,OPT]

Mount a filesystem. Filesystem autodetection requires /proc.

Options:

        -a              Mount all filesystems in fstab
        -f              Dry run
        -i              Don't run mount helper
        -r              Read-only mount
        -w              Read-write mount (default)
        -t FSTYPE       Filesystem type
        -O OPT          Mount only filesystems with option OPT (-a only)
-o OPT:
        loop            Ignored (loop devices are autodetected)
        [a]sync         Writes are [a]synchronous
        [no]atime       Disable/enable updates to inode access times
        [no]diratime    Disable/enable atime updates to directories
        [no]relatime    Disable/enable atime updates relative to modification time
        [no]dev         (Dis)allow use of special device files
        [no]exec        (Dis)allow use of executable files
        [no]suid        (Dis)allow set-user-id-root programs
        [r]shared       Convert [recursively] to a shared subtree
        [r]slave        Convert [recursively] to a slave subtree
        [r]private      Convert [recursively] to a private subtree
        [un]bindable    Make mount point [un]able to be bind mounted
        bind            Bind a directory to an additional location
        move            Relocate an existing mount point
        remount         Remount a mounted filesystem, changing its flags
        ro/rw           Read-only/read-write mount
There are EVEN MORE flags that are specific to each filesystem You'll have to see the written documentation for those filesystems

mountpoint
mountpoint [-q] <[-dn] DIR | -x DEVICE>

Check if the directory is a mountpoint

Options:

        -q      Quiet
        -d      Print major/minor device number of the filesystem
        -n      Print device name of the filesystem
        -x      Print major/minor device number of the blockdevice
mt
mt [-f device] opcode value

Control magnetic tape drive operation

Available Opcodes:

bsf bsfm bsr bss datacompression drvbuffer eof eom erase fsf fsfm fsr fss load lock mkpart nop offline ras1 ras2 ras3 reset retension rewind rewoffline seek setblk setdensity setpart tell unload unlock weof wset


nameif
nameif [-s] [-c FILE] [{IFNAME MACADDR}]

Rename network interface while it in the down state

Options:

        -c FILE         Use configuration file (default: /etc/mactab)
        -s              Use syslog (LOCAL0 facility)
        IFNAME MACADDR  new_interface_name interface_mac_address
nc
nc [OPTIONS] HOST PORT - connect nc [OPTIONS] -l -p PORT [HOST] [PORT] - listen

Options:

        -e PROG         Run PROG after connect (must be last)
        -l              Listen mode, for inbound connects
        -n              Don't do DNS resolution
        -s ADDR         Local address
        -p PORT         Local port
        -u              UDP mode
        -v              Verbose
        -w SEC          Timeout for connects and final net reads
        -i SEC          Delay interval for lines sent
        -o FILE         Hex dump traffic
        -z              Zero-I/O mode (scanning)
netstat
netstat [-laentuwxrWp]

Display networking information

Options:

        -l      Display listening server sockets
        -a      Display all sockets (default: connected)
        -e      Display other/more information
        -n      Don't resolve names
        -t      Tcp sockets
        -u      Udp sockets
        -w      Raw sockets
        -x      Unix sockets
        -r      Display routing table
        -W      Display with no column truncation
        -p      Display PID/Program name for sockets
nice
nice [-n ADJUST] [PROG [ARGS]]

Run PROG with modified scheduling priority

Options:

        -n ADJUST       Adjust priority by ADJUST
nmeter
nmeter format_string

Monitor system in real time

Format specifiers:

 %Nc or %[cN]   Monitor CPU. N - bar size, default 10
                (displays: S:system U:user N:niced D:iowait I:irq i:softirq)
 %[niface]      Monitor network interface 'iface'
 %m             Monitor allocated memory
 %[mf]          Monitor free memory
 %[mt]          Monitor total memory
 %s             Monitor allocated swap
 %f             Monitor number of used file descriptors
 %Ni            Monitor total/specific IRQ rate
 %x             Monitor context switch rate
 %p             Monitor forks
 %[pn]          Monitor # of processes
 %b             Monitor block io
 %Nt            Show time (with N decimal points)
 %Nd            Milliseconds between updates (default:1000)
 %r             Print <cr> instead of <lf> at EOL

nslookup
nslookup [HOST] [SERVER]

Query the nameserver for the IP address of the given HOST optionally using a specified DNS server

od
od [-aBbcDdeFfHhIiLlOovXx] [-t TYPE] [FILE]

Write an unambiguous representation, octal bytes by default, of FILE to standard output. With no FILE or when FILE is -, read standard input.

openvt
openvt [-c N] [-sw] [PROG [ARGS]]

Start PROG on a new virtual terminal

Options:

        -c N    Use specified VT
        -s      Switch to the VT
        -w      Wait for PROG to exit

pgrep
pgrep [-flnovx] [-s SID|-P PPID|PATTERN]

Display process(es) selected by regex PATTERN

Options:

        -l      Show command name too
        -f      Match against entire command line
        -n      Show the newest process only
        -o      Show the oldest process only
        -v      Negate the match
        -x      Match whole name (not substring)
        -s      Match session ID (0 for current)
        -P      Match parent process ID
pidof
pidof [OPTIONS] [NAME...]

List PIDs of all processes with names that match NAMEs

Options:

        -s      Show only one PID
        -o PID  Omit given pid
                Use %PPID to omit pid of pidof's parent
ping
ping [OPTIONS] HOST

Send ICMP ECHO_REQUEST packets to network hosts

Options:

        -4, -6          Force IPv4 or IPv6 hostname resolution
        -c CNT          Send only CNT pings
        -s SIZE         Send SIZE data bytes in packets (default:56)
        -I IFACE/IP     Use interface or IP address as source
        -W SEC          Seconds to wait for the first response (default:10)
                        (after all -c CNT packets are sent)
        -w SEC          Seconds until ping exits (default:infinite)
                        (can exit earlier with -c CNT)
        -q              Quiet, only displays output at start
                        and when finished
ping6
ping6 [OPTIONS] HOST

Send ICMP ECHO_REQUEST packets to network hosts

Options:

        -c CNT          Send only CNT pings
        -s SIZE         Send SIZE data bytes in packets (default:56)
        -I IFACE/IP     Use interface or IP address as source
        -q              Quiet, only displays output at start
                        and when finished
pivot_root
pivot_root NEW_ROOT PUT_OLD

Move the current root file system to PUT_OLD and make NEW_ROOT the new root file system

pkill
pkill [-l|-SIGNAL] [-fnovx] [-s SID|-P PPID|PATTERN]

Send a signal to process(es) selected by regex PATTERN

Options:

        -l      List all signals
        -f      Match against entire command line
        -n      Signal the newest process only
        -o      Signal the oldest process only
        -v      Negate the match
        -x      Match whole name (not substring)
        -s      Match session ID (0 for current)
        -P      Match parent process ID
popmaildir
popmaildir [OPTIONS] Maildir [connection-helper ...]

Fetch content of remote mailbox to local maildir

Options:

        -b              Binary mode. Ignored
        -d              Debug. Ignored
        -m              Show used memory. Ignored
        -V              Show version. Ignored
        -c              Use tcpclient. Ignored
        -a              Use APOP protocol. Implied. If server supports APOP -> use it
        -s              Skip authorization
        -T              Get messages with TOP instead with RETR
        -k              Keep retrieved messages on the server
        -t timeout      Network timeout
        -F "program arg1 arg2 ..."      Filter by program. May be multiple
        -M "program arg1 arg2 ..."      Deliver by program
        -R size         Remove old messages on the server >= size (in bytes). Ignored
        -Z N1-N2        Remove messages from N1 to N2 (dangerous). Ignored
        -L size         Do not retrieve new messages >= size (in bytes). Ignored
        -H lines        Type specified number of lines of a message. Ignored

printf
printf FORMAT [ARGUMENT...]

Format and print ARGUMENT(s) according to FORMAT, where FORMAT controls the output exactly as in C printf

pscan
pscan [-cb] [-p MIN_PORT] [-P MAX_PORT] [-t TIMEOUT] [-T MIN_RTT] HOST

Scan a host, print all open ports

Options:

        -c      Show closed ports too
        -b      Show blocked ports too
        -p      Scan from this port (default 1)
        -P      Scan up to this port (default 1024)
        -t      Timeout (default 5000 ms)
        -T      Minimum rtt (default 5 ms, increase for congested hosts)


raidautorun
raidautorun DEVICE

Tell the kernel to automatically search and start RAID arrays

rdate
rdate [-sp] HOST

Get and possibly set the system date and time from a remote HOST

Options:

        -s      Set the system date and time (default)
        -p      Print the date and time
rdev
rdev

Print the device node associated with the filesystem mounted at '/'

readlink
readlink [-fnv] FILE

Display the value of a symlink

Options:

        -f      Canonicalize by following all symlinks
        -n      Don't add newline
        -v      Verbose
readprofile
readprofile [OPTIONS]

Options:

        -m mapfile      (Default: /boot/System.map)
        -p profile      (Default: /proc/profile)
        -M mult         Set the profiling multiplier to mult
        -i              Print only info about the sampling step
        -v              Verbose
        -a              Print all symbols, even if count is 0
        -b              Print individual histogram-bin counts
        -s              Print individual counters within functions
        -r              Reset all the counters (root only)
        -n              Disable byte order auto-detection

reformime
reformime [OPTIONS] [FILE]...

Parse MIME-encoded message

Options:

        -x prefix       Extract content of MIME sections to files
        -X prog [args]  Filter content of MIME sections through prog.
                        Must be the last option
Other options are silently ignored.

renice
renice {{-n INCREMENT} | PRIORITY} [[-p | -g | -u] ID...]

Change priority of running processes

Options:

        -n      Adjust current nice value (smaller is faster)
        -p      Process id(s) (default)
        -g      Process group id(s)
        -u      Process user name(s) and/or id(s)
reset
reset

Reset the screen

resize
resize

Resize the screen



rmmod
rmmod [OPTIONS] [MODULE]...

Unload the specified kernel modules from the kernel

Options:

        -w      Wait until the module is no longer used
        -f      Force unloading
        -a      Remove all unused modules (recursively)
route
route [{add|del|delete}]

Edit kernel routing tables

Options:

        -n      Don't resolve names
        -e      Display other/more information
        -A inet{6}      Select address family
rpm
rpm -i -q[ildc]p package.rpm

Manipulate RPM packages

Options:

        -i      Install package
        -q      Query package
        -p      Query uninstalled package
        -i      Show information
        -l      List contents
        -d      List documents
        -c      List config files
rpm2cpio
rpm2cpio package.rpm

Output a cpio archive of the rpm file

rtcwake
rtcwake [-a | -l | -u] [-d DEV] [-m MODE] [-s SEC | -t TIME]

Enter a system sleep state until specified wakeup time

        -a,--auto       Read clock mode from adjtime
        -l,--local      Clock is set to local time
        -u,--utc        Clock is set to UTC time
        -d,--device=DEV Specify the RTC device
        -m,--mode=MODE  Set the sleep state (default: standby)
        -s,--seconds=SEC Set the timeout in SEC seconds from now
        -t,--time=TIME  Set the timeout to TIME seconds from epoch
run-parts
run-parts [-t] [-l] [-a ARG] [-u MASK] DIRECTORY

Run a bunch of scripts in a directory

Options:

        -t      Print what would be run, but don't actually run anything
        -a ARG  Pass ARG as argument for every program
        -u MASK Set the umask to MASK before running every program
        -l      Print names of all matching files even if they are not executable
runlevel
runlevel [utmp]

Find the current and previous system runlevel

If no utmp file exists or if no runlevel record can be found, print "unknown"

runsv
runsv dir

Start and monitor a service and optionally an appendant log service

runsvdir
runsvdir [-P] [-s SCRIPT] dir

Start a runsv process for each subdirectory. If it exits, restart it.

        -P              Put each runsv in a new session
        -s SCRIPT       Run SCRIPT <signo> after signal is processed
rx
rx FILE

Receive a file using the xmodem protocol

script
script [-afqt] [-c PROG] [OUTFILE]

Options:

        -a      Append output
        -c      Run PROG, not shell
        -f      Flush output after each write
        -q      Quiet
        -t      Send timing to stderr
scriptreplay
scriptreplay timingfile [typescript [divisor]]

Play back typescripts, using timing information



sendmail
sendmail [OPTIONS] [RECIPIENT_EMAIL]...

Read email from stdin and send it

Standard options:

        -t              Read additional recipients from message body
        -f sender       Sender (required)
        -o options      Various options. -oi implied, others are ignored
Busybox specific options:

        -w seconds      Network timeout
        -H 'PROG ARGS'  Run connection helper
                        Examples:
                        -H 'exec openssl s_client -quiet -tls1 -starttls smtp
                                -connect smtp.gmail.com:25' <email.txt
                                [4<username_and_passwd.txt | -au<username> -ap<password>]
                        -H 'exec openssl s_client -quiet -tls1
                                -connect smtp.gmail.com:465' <email.txt
                                [4<username_and_passwd.txt | -au<username> -ap<password>]
        -S server[:port] Server
        -au<username>   Username for AUTH LOGIN
        -ap<password>   Password for AUTH LOGIN
        -am<method>     Authentication method. Ignored. LOGIN is implied
Other options are silently ignored; -oi -t is implied Use makemime applet to create message with attachments

seq
seq [-w] [-s SEP] [FIRST [INC]] LAST

Print numbers from FIRST to LAST, in steps of INC. FIRST, INC default to 1

Options:

        -w      Pad to last with leading zeros
        -s SEP  String separator
setarch
setarch personality program [args...]

Personality may be:

        linux32         Set 32bit uname emulation
        linux64         Set 64bit uname emulation
setconsole
setconsole [-r|--reset] [DEVICE]

Redirect system console output to DEVICE (default: /dev/tty)

Options:

        -r      Reset output to /dev/console
setfont
setfont FONT [-m MAPFILE] [-C TTY]

Load a console font

Options:

        -m MAPFILE      Load console screen map
        -C TTY          Affect TTY instead of /dev/tty
setkeycodes
setkeycodes SCANCODE KEYCODE...

Set entries into the kernel's scancode-to-keycode map, allowing unusual keyboards to generate usable keycodes.

SCANCODE may be either xx or e0xx (hexadecimal), and KEYCODE is given in decimal

setlogcons
setlogcons N

Redirect the kernel output to console N (0 for current)

setsid
setsid PROG [ARG...]

Run PROG in a new session. PROG will have no controlling terminal and will not be affected by keyboard signals (Ctrl-C etc). See setsid(2) for details.

setuidgid
setuidgid account prog args

Set uid and gid to account's uid and gid, removing all supplementary groups and run PROG

sha1sum
sha1sum [OPTIONS] [FILE]... or: sha1sum [OPTIONS] -c [FILE]

Print or check SHA1 checksums

Options:

        -c      Check sums against given list
        -s      Don't output anything, status code shows success
        -w      Warn about improperly formatted checksum lines
sha256sum
sha256sum [OPTIONS] [FILE]... or: sha256sum [OPTIONS] -c [FILE]

Print or check SHA256 checksums

Options:

        -c      Check sums against given list
        -s      Don't output anything, status code shows success
        -w      Warn about improperly formatted checksum lines
sha512sum
sha512sum [OPTIONS] [FILE]... or: sha512sum [OPTIONS] -c [FILE]

Print or check SHA512 checksums

Options:

        -c      Check sums against given list
        -s      Don't output anything, status code shows success
        -w      Warn about improperly formatted checksum lines
showkey
showkey [-a | -k | -s]

Show keys pressed

Options:

        -a      Display decimal/octal/hex values of the keys
        -k      Display interpreted keycodes (default)
        -s      Display raw scan-codes
slattach
slattach [-cehmLF] [-s SPEED] [-p PROTOCOL] DEVICE

Attach network interface(s) to serial line(s)

Options:

        -p PROT Set protocol (slip, cslip, slip6, clisp6 or adaptive)
        -s SPD  Set line speed
        -e      Exit after initializing device
        -h      Exit when the carrier is lost
        -c PROG Run PROG when the line is hung up
        -m      Do NOT initialize the line in raw 8 bits mode
        -L      Enable 3-wire operation
        -F      Disable RTS/CTS flow control
sleep
sleep [N]...

Pause for a time equal to the total of the args given, where each arg can have an optional suffix of (s)econds, (m)inutes, (h)ours, or (d)ays

softlimit
softlimit [-a BYTES] [-m BYTES] [-d BYTES] [-s BYTES] [-l BYTES]
[-f BYTES] [-c BYTES] [-r BYTES] [-o N] [-p N] [-t N]
PROG ARGS
Set soft resource limits, then run PROG

Options:

        -a BYTES        Limit total size of all segments
        -m BYTES        Same as -d BYTES -s BYTES -l BYTES -a BYTES
        -d BYTES        Limit data segment
        -s BYTES        Limit stack segment
        -l BYTES        Limit locked memory size
        -o N            Limit number of open files per process
        -p N            Limit number of processes per uid
Options controlling file sizes:
        -f BYTES        Limit output file sizes
        -c BYTES        Limit core file size
Efficiency opts:
        -r BYTES        Limit resident set size
        -t N            Limit CPU time, process receives
                        a SIGXCPU after N seconds

split
split [OPTIONS] [INPUT [PREFIX]]

Options:

        -b n[k|m]       Split by bytes
        -l n            Split by lines
        -a n            Use n letters as suffix
start-stop-daemon
start-stop-daemon [OPTIONS] [-S|-K] ... [-- arguments...]

Search for matching processes, and then -K: stop all matching processes. -S: start a process unless a matching process is found.

Process matching:

        -u,--user USERNAME|UID  Match only this user's processes
        -n,--name NAME          Match processes with NAME
                                in comm field in /proc/PID/stat
        -x,--exec EXECUTABLE    Match processes with this command
                                in /proc/PID/cmdline
        -p,--pidfile FILE       Match a process with PID from the file
        All specified conditions must match
-S only:
        -x,--exec EXECUTABLE    Program to run
        -a,--startas NAME       Zeroth argument
        -b,--background         Background
        -N,--nicelevel N        Change nice level
        -c,--chuid USER[:[GRP]] Change to user/group
        -m,--make-pidfile       Write PID to the pidfile specified by -p
-K only:
        -s,--signal SIG         Signal to send
        -t,--test               Match only, exit with 0 if a process is found
Other:
        -o,--oknodo             Exit with status 0 if nothing is done
        -v,--verbose            Verbose
        -q,--quiet              Quiet

strings
strings [-afo] [-n LEN] [FILE]...

Display printable strings in a binary file

Options:

        -a      Scan whole file (default)
        -f      Precede strings with filenames
        -n LEN  At least LEN characters form a string (default 4)
        -o      Precede strings with decimal offsets

su
su [OPTIONS] [-] [username]

Change user id or become root

Options:

        -p, -m  Preserve environment
        -c CMD  Command to pass to 'sh -c'
        -s SH   Shell to use instead of default shell
sulogin
sulogin [OPTIONS] [TTY]

Single user login

Options:

        -t N    Timeout
sum
sum [-rs] [FILE]...

Checksum and count the blocks in a file

Options:

        -r      Use BSD sum algorithm (1K blocks)
        -s      Use System V sum algorithm (512byte blocks)
sv
sv [-v] [-w sec] command service...

Control services monitored by runsv supervisor. Commands (only first character is enough):

status: query service status up: if service isn't running, start it. If service stops, restart it once: like 'up', but if service stops, don't restart it down: send TERM and CONT signals. If ./run exits, start ./finish if it exists. After it stops, do not restart service exit: send TERM and CONT signals to service and log service. If they exit, runsv exits too pause, cont, hup, alarm, interrupt, quit, 1, 2, term, kill: send STOP, CONT, HUP, ALRM, INT, QUIT, USR1, USR2, TERM, KILL signal to service

svlogd
svlogd [-ttv] [-r c] [-R abc] [-l len] [-b buflen] dir...

Continuously read log data from standard input, optionally filter log messages, and write the data to one or more automatically rotated logs

swapoff
swapoff [-a] [DEVICE]

Stop swapping on DEVICE

Options:

        -a      Stop swapping on all swap devices
swapon
swapon [-a] [-p pri] [DEVICE]

Start swapping on DEVICE

Options:

        -a      Start swapping on all swap devices
        -p pri  Set swap device priority
switch_root
switch_root [-c /dev/console] NEW_ROOT NEW_INIT [ARGS]

Free initramfs and switch to another root fs:

chroot to NEW_ROOT, delete all in /, move NEW_ROOT to /, execute NEW_INIT. PID must be 1. NEW_ROOT must be a mountpoint.

Options:

        -c DEV  Reopen stdio to DEV after switch
sync
sync

Write all buffered blocks to disk

sysctl
sysctl [OPTIONS] [VALUE]...

Configure kernel parameters at runtime

Options:

        -n      Don't print key names
        -e      Don't warn about unknown keys
        -w      Change sysctl setting
        -p FILE Load sysctl settings from FILE (default /etc/sysctl.conf)
        -a      Display all values
        -A      Display all values in table form
syslogd
syslogd [OPTIONS]

System logging utility. Note that this version of syslogd ignores /etc/syslog.conf.

Options:

        -n              Run in foreground
        -O FILE         Log to given file (default:/var/log/messages)
        -l n            Set local log level
        -S              Smaller logging output
        -s SIZE         Max size (KB) before rotate (default:200KB, 0=off)
        -b NUM          Number of rotated logs to keep (default:1, max=99, 0=purge)
        -R HOST[:PORT]  Log to IP or hostname on PORT (default PORT=514/UDP)
        -L              Log locally and via network (default is network only if -R)
        -D              Drop duplicates
        -C[size(KiB)]   Log to shared mem buffer (read it using logread)
tac
tac [FILE]...

Concatenate FILE(s) and print them in reverse

taskset
taskset [-p] [MASK] [PID | PROG [ARGS]]

Set or get CPU affinity

Options:

        -p      Operate on an existing PID
tcpsvd
tcpsvd [-hEv] [-c N] [-C N[:MSG]] [-b N] [-u USER] [-l NAME] IP PORT PROG

Create TCP socket, bind to IP:PORT and listen for incoming connection. Run PROG for each connection.

        IP              IP to listen on. '0' = all
        PORT            Port to listen on
        PROG [ARGS]     Program to run
        -l NAME         Local hostname (else looks up local hostname in DNS)
        -u USER[:GRP]   Change to user/group after bind
        -c N            Handle up to N connections simultaneously
        -b N            Allow a backlog of approximately N TCP SYNs
        -C N[:MSG]      Allow only up to N connections from the same IP
                        New connections from this IP address are closed
                        immediately. MSG is written to the peer before close
        -h              Look up peer's hostname
        -E              Do not set up environment variables
        -v              Verbose

telnet
telnet [-a] [-l USER] HOST [PORT]

Connect to telnet server

Options:

        -a      Automatic login with $USER variable
        -l USER Automatic login as USER
telnetd
telnetd [OPTIONS]

Handle incoming telnet connections

Options:

        -l LOGIN        Exec LOGIN on connect
        -f ISSUE_FILE   Display ISSUE_FILE instead of /etc/issue
        -K              Close connection as soon as login exits
                        (normally wait until all programs close slave pty)
        -p PORT         Port to listen on
        -b ADDR[:PORT]  Address to bind to
        -F              Run in foreground
        -i              Run as inetd service
        -w SEC          Run as inetd service in wait mode, linger time SEC
        -S              Log to syslog (implied by -i or without -F and -w)
test
test EXPRESSION ]

Check file types, compare values etc. Return a 0/1 exit code depending on logical value of EXPRESSION

tftp
tftp [OPTIONS] HOST [PORT]

Transfer a file from/to tftp server

Options:

        -l FILE Local FILE
        -r FILE Remote FILE
        -g      Get file
        -p      Put file
        -b SIZE Transfer blocks of SIZE octets
tftpd
tftpd [-cr] [-u USER] [DIR]

Transfer a file on tftp client's request

tftpd should be used as an inetd service. tftpd's line for inetd.conf: 69 dgram udp nowait root tftpd tftpd /files/to/serve It also can be ran from udpsvd:

        udpsvd -vE 0.0.0.0 69 tftpd /files/to/serve
Options:

        -r      Prohibit upload
        -c      Allow file creation via upload
        -u      Access files as USER
time
time [OPTIONS] PROG [ARGS]

Run PROG. When it finishes, its resource usage is displayed.

Options:

        -v      Verbose
timeout
timeout [-t SECS] [-s SIG] PROG [ARGS]

Runs PROG. Sends SIG to it if it is not gone in SECS seconds. Defaults: SECS: 10, SIG: TERM.

traceroute
traceroute [-FIldnrv] [-f 1st_ttl] [-m max_ttl] [-p port#] [-q nqueries]
[-s src_addr] [-t tos] [-w wait] [-g gateway] [-i iface]
[-z pausemsecs] HOST [data size]
Trace the route to HOST

Options:

        -F      Set the don't fragment bit
        -I      Use ICMP ECHO instead of UDP datagrams
        -l      Display the ttl value of the returned packet
        -d      Set SO_DEBUG options to socket
        -n      Print hop addresses numerically rather than symbolically
        -r      Bypass the normal routing tables and send directly to a host
        -v      Verbose
        -m max_ttl      Max time-to-live (max number of hops)
        -p port#        Base UDP port number used in probes
                        (default 33434)
        -q nqueries     Number of probes per 'ttl' (default 3)
        -s src_addr     IP address to use as the source address
        -t tos          Type-of-service in probe packets (default 0)
        -w wait         Time in seconds to wait for a response
                        (default 3 sec)
        -g              Loose source route gateway (8 max)
true
true

Return an exit code of TRUE (0)

ttysize
ttysize [w] [h]

Print dimension(s) of standard input's terminal, on error return 80x25

udhcpc
udhcpc [-Cfbnqtvo] [-c CID] [-V VCLS] [-H HOSTNAME] [-i INTERFACE]
[-p pidfile] [-r IP] [-s script] [-O dhcp-option]...
        -V,--vendorclass=CLASSID        Vendor class identifier
        -i,--interface=INTERFACE        Interface to use (default eth0)
        -H,-h,--hostname=HOSTNAME       Client hostname
        -c,--clientid=CLIENTID  Client identifier
        -C,--clientid-none      Suppress default client identifier
        -p,--pidfile=file       Create pidfile
        -r,--request=IP         IP address to request
        -s,--script=file        Run file at DHCP events (default /usr/share/udhcpc/default.script)
        -t,--retries=N          Send up to N request packets
        -T,--timeout=N          Try to get a lease for N seconds (default 3)
        -A,--tryagain=N         Wait N seconds (default 20) after failure
        -O,--request-option=OPT Request DHCP option OPT (cumulative)
        -o,--no-default-options Do not request any options (unless -O is also given)
        -f,--foreground Run in foreground
        -b,--background Background if lease is not immediately obtained
        -S,--syslog     Log to syslog too
        -n,--now        Exit with failure if lease is not immediately obtained
        -q,--quit       Quit after obtaining lease
        -R,--release    Release IP on quit
        -a,--arping     Use arping to validate offered address
udhcpd
udhcpd [-fS] [configfile]

DHCP server

        -f      Run in foreground
        -S      Log to syslog too
udpsvd
udpsvd [-hEv] [-c N] [-u USER] [-l NAME] IP PORT PROG

Create UDP socket, bind to IP:PORT and wait for incoming packets. Run PROG for each packet, redirecting all further packets with same peer ip:port to it.

        IP              IP to listen on. '0' = all
        PORT            Port to listen on
        PROG [ARGS]     Program to run
        -l NAME         Local hostname (else looks up local hostname in DNS)
        -u USER[:GRP]   Change to user/group after bind
        -c N            Handle up to N connections simultaneously
        -h              Look up peer's hostname
        -E              Do not set up environment variables
        -v              Verbose
umount
umount [flags] FILESYSTEM|DIRECTORY

Unmount file systems

Options:

        -a      Unmount all file systems
        -r      Try to remount devices as read-only if mount is busy
        -l      Lazy umount (detach filesystem)
        -f      Force umount (i.e., unreachable NFS server)
        -d      Free loop device if it has been used
uname
uname [-amnrspv]

Print system information

Options:

        -a      Print all
        -m      The machine (hardware) type
        -n      Hostname
        -r      OS release
        -s      OS name (default)
        -p      Processor type
        -v      OS version
uncompress
uncompress [-c] [-f] [name...]

Uncompress .Z file[s]

Options:

        -c      Extract to stdout
        -f      Overwrite an existing file
unexpand
unexpand [-f][-a][-t NUM] [FILE|-]

Convert spaces to tabs, writing to standard output

Options:

        -a,--all        Convert all blanks
        -f,--first-only Convert only leading blanks
        -t,--tabs=N     Tabstops every N chars

unix2dos
unix2dos [OPTION] [FILE]

Convert FILE in-place from Unix to DOS format. When no file is given, use stdin/stdout.

Options:

        -u      dos2unix
        -d      unix2dos
unlzma
unlzma [OPTIONS] [FILE]

Uncompress FILE (or standard input if FILE is '-' or omitted)

Options:

        -c      Write to standard output
        -f      Force
unlzop
unlzop [-cfvCF] [FILE]...

        -c      Write to standard output
        -f      Force
        -v      Verbose
        -F      Don't store or verify checksum

uptime
uptime

Display the time since the last boot

usleep
usleep N

Pause for N microseconds

uudecode
uudecode [-o outfile] [infile]

Uudecode a file Finds outfile name in uuencoded source unless -o is given

uuencode
uuencode [-m] [infile] stored_filename

Uuencode a file to stdout

Options:

        -m      Use base64 encoding per RFC1521
vconfig
vconfig COMMAND [OPTIONS]

Create and remove virtual ethernet devices

Options:

        add             [interface-name] [vlan_id]
        rem             [vlan-name]
        set_flag        [interface-name] [flag-num] [0 | 1]
        set_egress_map  [vlan-name] [skb_priority] [vlan_qos]
        set_ingress_map [vlan-name] [skb_priority] [vlan_qos]
        set_name_type   [name-type]

vlock
vlock [OPTIONS]

Lock a virtual terminal. A password is required to unlock.

Options:

        -a      Lock all VTs
volname
volname [DEVICE]

Show CD volume name of the DEVICE (default /dev/cdrom)

watch
watch [-n seconds] [-t] PROG [ARGS]

Run PROG periodically

Options:

        -n      Loop period in seconds (default 2)
        -t      Don't print header
watchdog
watchdog [-t N[ms]] [-T N[ms]] [-F] DEV

Periodically write to watchdog device DEV

Options:

        -T N    Reboot after N seconds if not reset (default 60)
        -t N    Reset every N seconds (default 30)
        -F      Run in foreground
Use 500ms to specify period in milliseconds


wget
wget [-c|--continue] [-s|--spider] [-q|--quiet] [-O|--output-document file]
[--header 'header: value'] [-Y|--proxy on/off] [-P DIR]
[-U|--user-agent agent] url
Retrieve files via HTTP or FTP

Options:

        -s      Spider mode - only check file existence
        -c      Continue retrieval of aborted transfer
        -q      Quiet
        -P      Set directory prefix to DIR
        -O      Save to filename ('-' for stdout)
        -U      Adjust 'User-Agent' field
        -Y      Use proxy ('on' or 'off')
who
who [-a]

Show who is logged on

Options:

        -a      show all
whoami
whoami

Print the user name associated with the current effective user id


yes
yes [OPTIONS] [STRING]

Repeatedly output a line with STRING, or 'y'

zcip
zcip [OPTIONS] IFACE SCRIPT

Manage a ZeroConf IPv4 link-local address

Options:

        -f              Run in foreground
        -q              Quit after obtaining address
        -r 169.254.x.x  Request this address first
        -v              Verbose
With no -q, runs continuously monitoring for ARP conflicts, exits only on I/O errors (link down etc)